Welcome back.
So now I'm going to go
through my solutions
to the exercises I
had you do before.
So you might have come here
because you were having
difficulties actually
implementing that stuff
or maybe you just want
to see how I did it.
You probably ended up
doing it differently
than me, which is totally fine.
I mean, this is
programming, so there's
thousands of different
ways to do these things.
This is just the
way that I did it.
So the first thing I did was
encode the words with integers.
What I like to do
is I actually like
to set the integers
in order of frequency.
So then the highest frequency
word is going to be 1,
the next one's going
to be 2, and so on.
There's not a real good
reason to do that here,
but it helped a lot when I was
working on the Word2Vec model.
So yeah, I just kind
of like doing that.
So if you didn't do
that, then that's fine.
So here I used a
counter to count up
the frequency of all
the words and then
I sorted it to get
my vocab in order
of the frequency of words.
Here, I'm just building my
dictionary, my vocab to integer
dictionary, using a
dictionary comprehension.
So I'm just using
enumerate on the vocabulary
and starting it at 1 to
get my index, my integer,
and the word, and just
setting the word as the key
and the integer as the value.
So like I said before, we
want to start at 1 here,
not 0, because we're padding our
input vectors with 0's later.
So if you had some word
count as 0, like "be"
encoded as 0, then when
the network saw it later,
it would think everything
was the word "it"
or something, or "the," because
I think "the" is usually
the most frequent word.
So here is where I converted my
reviews from words into ints.
Again, I'm using
a comprehension.
This time just a
list comprehension.
So I am taking each
review from my reviews
and I split it into words, and
then for each of those words,
I convert it to an integer.
And then I'm using
a list comprehension
to build a new list
using those integers.
And I just append it to
this new list, reviews_ints.
In that way, I can
build this list of lists
where each of those
inner lists is
a review that has been converted
from words into integers.
Here is where I
encoded the labels.
So, again, this is
where we are changing
our labels from positive
and negative to 1 and 0,
respectively.
So this was pretty
straightforward for me.
So I basically just used
another list comprehension.
I use a lot of
list comprehensions
because I really like them.
So basically I'm just
grabbing each label and labels
and then I'm doing this test.
So I'm saying, make it 1 if that
label is positive, and else,
make it 0.
So in this way you could just
loop through the whole thing,
build a new list,
and then change it
into an array for labels.
I typically like to keep my
data as NumPy arrays rather than
lists because it just makes
it easier to work with.
Basically, anytime
you're working
with numbers in
any way, it's going
to be better to use a NumPy
array rather than just
a normal Python list.
So here I am filtering out
this review with zero length.
So, I don't know,
I was kind of lazy
and didn't want to look
through the entire list
to find which one
has zero length,
so all I did is I just looped
through the entire thing,
again, using a
list comprehension.
I love comprehensions.
So I used a list comprehension
and did this test,
make sure the length of each of
the reviews is greater than 0,
and then if it is, add it.
Otherwise, it won't add
this to the final list.
So in that way, you just
loop through whole thing
and just make sure everything
has a length greater than 0.
So here I built
my features array.
This is actually pretty
difficult, I think.
It's definitely not
trivial and there's
a bunch of ways to do this.
So if you had problems with
this, it's totally fine.
Hey, you're learning,
that's good.
If it's difficult
for you, that means
you're learning, which is
exactly what we want you to do.
So basically, the way
I did this is I first
initialized an array
of all 0's that is
the length of our reviews.
So basically, like
I was saying, there
is one row for each
review and then
each row is going to be
200 sequence steps long.
So our sequence length is 200.
So then our features
array of 0's is
going to be the length of the
reviews by the sequence length.
So this is going to give
us however many reviews
we have by 200, and we want
to make these integers.
So now, once I have the 0's,
then I'm going to fill it in.
And so this is a pretty easy
way to do this, because instead
of like, oh, I had the
[? left ?] pad things.
I already have all my zeros.
So I can just fill in the
elements that I need to.
So the way that I'm
doing that is I'm
looping through my reviews, the
integers, with an enumerate.
So I'm using this enumerate
to actually pick out
which row I'm on.
So I'm grabbing a row
from features, like row i,
and then I'm looking at--
so negative length row.
So this is basically if
the length of your row
is less than 200,
so say it's 100,
then I'm only going to grab the
last 100 elements in this row.
So that kind of takes care
of the situation where
you have less than 200
words in your review.
So then what I'm doing is I am
converting each of the rows,
in my reviews into
an array and then
I just take the first
200 words in that array.
So basically this takes care
of both problems that we have.
So one problem's
like, OK, if we have
a review that's
more than 200 words,
how do we get the
first 200 words?
Well, that's what this is doing.
And then if we have
an array that's
less than 200 words,
how do we add that
to the end of our array?
And that's what this is doing.
So this is just a really
simple way to do this.
And I'm sure you probably
found a different way
to do that, which is,
of course, totally fine.
This is how I did it.
I've been using NumPy
for a really long time,
so I know how to do a
lot of things like this
just from experience.
And that's sort of the thing
with programming in general,
is that just as you do this
more and more and more,
you learn all these tricks
that make doing things
like this a lot faster and a
lot more intuitive for you.
Now this is my solution for
the training, validation,
and test sets.
So this is pretty much
my general approach
for every time I make training
sets and that sort of stuff.
So I just define
my split fraction,
then I find some integer,
so basically the index
where I'm going
to split my data.
And you need this as an
integer because the index
that you're going to
pass into your array
has to be an integer.
So here, for my training
x and my validation x,
I'm just going to take my
features up to the split index.
And then for
validation, it's going
to be from the split
index and to the end.
And then I do the same thing for
my training y and my validation
y.
So I just use labels
and set it features.
And I basically do the same
exact thing for my test sets,
except I am taking half.
So I'm just looking at the
length of the validation set
and I take half of it, so
now that's my index to split.
And then I'm just taking
my validation data
and I'm keeping the first
half for my validation
and then the second
half for the testing.
right.
So here is how I
created my placeholders
for the inputs and the labels
and the key probability.
This is pretty typical.
So I just did tf.placeholder,
these are going to be integers.
And then I just left the
batch size and the sequence
size just kind of
variable, like arbitrary,
which is usually fine.
And again, for the
labels, even though we're
really only passing in
one label at a time,
so it's either like 1 or
0, later in the network
there's some functions that
require the labels to be
two dimensional.
So that's why I just add a
two dimensional thing here.
So this is one of those
things where first I
did it as one dimensional,
because in my head I'm like,
oh, this only needs to be 1D.
And then later, as I was
building the network,
I found that the spot where
it's calling a function and it
wanted it to be two dimensional.
So then I had to come back
up to here and then recreate
this labels placeholder
with two dimensions.
I find there's a lot of stuff
like that and in TensorFlow,
you just kind of run through
it and then at some points
you find that the thing
you defined earlier
is not going to work because
of shapes or something.
So this is one of those
things that you find out
by building TensorFlow graphs.
All right.
So this is how I created
the embedding layers.
So as before, like
the Word2Vec network,
just create your embedding
matrix just as variable.
Here I'm just using a
random uniform distribution.
And then the size is like
the number of words you have,
and then you're embedding
size, so here I used 300.
So what this is going
to do is the output
from the embedding
layer is going
to be 300 units
long, so it's going
to be a 300 length vector.
Well, 300 length vector for
every input you have coming in,
since in this case we are
actually having like multiple,
up to 200 words
actually coming in.
Here to actually do
the look up, we have
the tf.nn.embedding_lookup.
So we're just pass in our
embedding matrix and our inputs
and then we get our
embedded vectors.
And this is how I
created our LSTM cells.
So basically I just create a
basic LSTM cell, set the size,
then I can apply drop out to
it, so pass in the LSTM cell
and set the key
probability, and pass this
to our [? multi rnncell, ?]
and then get the initial state.
And then this is
the forward pass.
So here I'm just
using a dynamic_rnn
and then we pass
in our cell which
we created, and then the
output from the embedding layer
and the initial state.
And then that just gives us
our outputs from the LSTM
cells and our final state.
OK.
So this is what
it looks like when
it's all built and is trained.
After-- pretty quickly,
after only like 25 batches
going through, we have
almost like 71% accuracy
on our validation set.
And then a bit more.
Eventually we get up
to I think like 83%.
Oh, yeah, we've 84 here
and then ends at 83.
So it does this pretty well,
it trained really quickly.
Well, really quickly on a GPU.
And then if we look at the test
accuracy, we get about 83%.
So I imagine if I added
more layers or more units
to the LSTM cells, then I could
get better accuracy on this.
Or it might just be that
this is the extent to what we
can do with our data set.
I hope you enjoyed
this lesson, and I
hope you enjoyed implementing
this sentiment analysis
or sentiment prediction
[? recurrent ?] neural network,
and I'll see you
in the next lesson.
Cheers!